Quickstart update stylus release (#1646)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/stylus/stylus-quickstart.md

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

This guide will get you started with <a data-quicklook-from="stylus">Stylus</a>' basics. We'll cover the following steps:

1. [Setting up your development environment](./stylus-quickstart#setting-up-your-development-environment)

> 2. [Creating a new Stylus contract](./stylus-quickstart#creating-a-stylus-project-with-cargo stylus)

Reviewer: This link seems to be broken now (possibly due to changing the title)

Author: Fixed, thanks for that!

#### VS Code

We recommend [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) as the IDE of choice for its excellent Rust support, but feel free to use another text editor or IDE if you’re comfortable with those.

Some helpful VS Code extensions for Rust development:

- [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer): Provides advanced features like smart code completion and on-the-fly error checks
- [Error Lens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=usernamehw.errorlens): Immediately highlights errors and warnings in your code
- [Even Better TOML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tamasfe.even-better-toml): Improves syntax highlighting and other features for TOML files, often used in Rust projects
- [Dependi](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=fill-labs.dependi): Helps manage Rust crate versions directly from the editor

#### Docker

> `cargo stylus` requires Docker to operate. You can download Docker from [Docker’s website](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

Reviewer: I would maybe say that "some `cargo stylus` commands require Docker to operate", since it's not a requirement of cargo-stylus per se, but just using some commands for reproducible builds.

Author: Noted, fixed.

#### Developer wallet/account

We recommend creating an account specifically for development that doesn't hold any real assets.

##### Creating a new account

If you’re using [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/), click the dropdown at the top middle of the plugin and then click “Add Account” to create a fresh account.
Labeling the account as a dev wallet or “Stylus” can be helpful. You’ll need this newly created account’s private key. [Follow the instructions on MetaMask’s website](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key) to obtain your key.

##### Storing your private key

You might also want to add your developer's private key to your environment variables for easier and safer access.

> To do this, store your hex-encoded private key in a text file and add the path to the file as an ENV variable named `$PRIVKEY_FILE_PATH` to your shell file, e.g.,``.bashrc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, store your hex-encoded private key in a text file and add the path to the file as an ENV variable named `PRIVKEY_FILE_PATH`.
```

I would avoid mentioning adding it to the shell's profile file, since it's not required, and new users might not know how to do this. They can simply do `export PRIVKEY_FILE_PATH=private_key` and that will work for this example.

Author: noted, done.

#### Arbitrum Sepolia ETH

We will interact with the [Arbitrum Sepolia](./reference/testnet-information.md) testnet, so you will need a small amount of Sepolia ETH to deploy contracts and send transactions. 

> To add Arb Sepolia ETH to your wallet you can request it from a [faucet](https://arbitrum.faucet.dev/ArbSepolia).

Reviewer: Maybe better to not directly reference this third party page, but instead the individual faucets. I think you can simply reference the faucets from Alchemy and Quicknode here.

Author: Done.

## Creating a Stylus project with cargo Stylus

`cargo Stylus` is a CLI toolkit built to facilitate Stylus contracts development.

It is available as a plugin to the standard `cargo` tool used for developing Rust programs.

### Installing cargo Stylus

In your terminal, run:

```shell

> cargo install --force cargo stylus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cargo install --force cargo-stylus
```

Author: Thanks!

## Checking if your Stylus project is valid

By running `cargo stylus check` against your first contract, you can check if your program can be successfully **deployed and activated** on-chain.

**Important:** Ensure your Docker service is running for this command to work correctly.

```shell
cargo stylus check
```

`cargo stylus check` executes a dry-run on your project by compiling your contract to WASM and verifying if it can be deployed and activated onchain.

If the command above fails, you'll see detailed information about why your contract would be rejected:

```shell
Reading WASM file at bad-export.wat
Compressed WASM size: 55 B
Stylus checks failed: program pre-deployment check failed when checking against
ARB_WASM_ADDRESS 0x0000…0071: (code: -32000, message: program activation failed: failed to parse program)

Caused by:
    binary exports reserved symbol stylus_ink_left

Location:
    prover/src/binary.rs:493:9, data: None)
```

> The program can fail the check for various reasons (on compile, deployment, etc...). Reading the [Invalid Stylus WASM Contracts explainer](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/cargo stylus/blob/main/main/VALID_WASM.md) can help you understand what makes a WASM contract valid or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The program can fail the check for various reasons (on compile, deployment, etc...). Reading the [Invalid Stylus WASM Contracts explainer](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/cargo-stylus/blob/main/main/VALID_WASM.md) can help you understand what makes a WASM contract valid or not.
```

Author: Thanks! Fixed.

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

This guide will get you started with <a data-quicklook-from="stylus">Stylus</a>' basics. We'll cover the following steps:

1. [Setting up your development environment](./stylus-quickstart#setting-up-your-development-environment)

> 2. [Creating a Stylus project with cargo Stylus](./stylus-quickstart#creating-a-stylus-project-with-cargo stylus)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Creating a Stylus project with cargo stylus](./stylus-quickstart#creating-a-stylus-project-with-cargo-stylus)
```

Fixing on the fly, not sure if that's correct :)

#### VS Code

We recommend [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) as the IDE of choice for its excellent Rust support, but feel free to use another text editor or IDE if you’re comfortable with those.

Some helpful VS Code extensions for Rust development:

- [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer): Provides advanced features like smart code completion and on-the-fly error checks
- [Error Lens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=usernamehw.errorlens): Immediately highlights errors and warnings in your code
- [Even Better TOML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tamasfe.even-better-toml): Improves syntax highlighting and other features for TOML files, often used in Rust projects
- [Dependi](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=fill-labs.dependi): Helps manage Rust crate versions directly from the editor

#### Docker

> Some `cargo stylus` commands requires Docker to operate. You can download Docker from [Docker’s website](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some `cargo stylus` commands require Docker to operate. You can download Docker from [Docker’s website](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).
```

#### Developer wallet/account

We recommend creating an account specifically for development that doesn't hold any real assets.

##### Creating a new account

If you’re using [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/), click the dropdown at the top middle of the plugin and then click “Add Account” to create a fresh account.
Labeling the account as a dev wallet or “Stylus” can be helpful. You’ll need this newly created account’s private key. [Follow the instructions on MetaMask’s website](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key) to obtain your key.

##### Storing your private key

> You might also want to add your developer's private key to your environment variables for easier and safer access with `export PRIVKEY_FILE_PATH=<path-of-your-private-key>` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might also want to add your developer's private key to your environment variables for easier and safer access with `export PRIV_KEY_PATH=<path-of-your-private-key>` 
```

Changing this one, since the other occurrences use the same variable name.

#### Arbitrum Sepolia ETH

We will interact with the [Arbitrum Sepolia](./reference/testnet-information.md) testnet, so you will need a small amount of Sepolia ETH to deploy contracts and send transactions. 

To add Arb Sepolia ETH to your wallet you can request it from these faucets:
- [Alchemy's faucet](https://www.alchemy.com/faucets/arbitrum-sepolia)
- [Quicknode's faucet](https://faucet.quicknode.com/arbitrum/sepolia) 

> ## Creating a Stylus project with cargo Stylus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a Stylus project with cargo stylus
```

cargo stylus is a CLI toolkit built to facilitate Stylus contracts development.

It is available as a plugin to the standard `cargo` tool used for developing Rust programs.

> ### Installing cargo Stylus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installing cargo stylus
```

```shell
Reading WASM file at bad-export.wat
Compressed WASM size: 55 B
Stylus checks failed: program pre-deployment check failed when checking against
ARB_WASM_ADDRESS 0x0000…0071: (code: -32000, message: program activation failed: failed to parse program)

Caused by:
    binary exports reserved symbol stylus_ink_left

Location:
    prover/src/binary.rs:493:9, data: None)
```

The program can fail the check for various reasons (on compile, deployment, etc...). Reading the [Invalid Stylus WASM Contracts explainer](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/cargo-stylus/blob/main/main/VALID_WASM.md) can help you understand what makes a WASM contract valid or not.

If your program succeeds, you'll see something like this:

```shell
Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 1.88s
Reading WASM file at hello-stylus/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/hello-stylus.wasm
Compressed WASM size: 3 KB
Program succeeded Stylus onchain activation checks with Stylus version: 1
```

Note that running `cargo stylus check` may take a few minutes, especially if you're verifying a contract for the first time.

See `cargo stylus check --help` for more options.

## Deploying your contract

> Once you're ready to deploy your program onchain, `cargo stylus deploy` will help you with the estimation of the deployment's gas cost, as well as with the deployment itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you're ready to deploy your program on-chain, `cargo stylus deploy` will help you with the estimation of the deployment's gas cost, as well as with the deployment itself.
```

Changing here since I saw you changed the previous occurrence, but feel free to use the convention you prefer.

### Estimating gas

First, you can estimate the gas required to perform your contract's deployment by running:

```shell
cargo stylus deploy \
  --private-key-path=$PRIV_KEY_PATH \
  --estimate-gas
```

The command should return something like this:

```shell
deployment tx gas: 7123737
gas price: "0.100000000" gwei
deployment tx total cost: "0.000712373700000000" ETH
```

### Deployment

> Next, you can attempt an actual deployment. Two transactions will be sent onchain: the contract deployment and its activation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you can attempt an actual deployment. Two transactions will be sent on-chain: the contract deployment and its activation.
```

Same as above

#### VS Code

We recommend [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) as the IDE of choice for its excellent Rust support, but feel free to use another text editor or IDE if you’re comfortable with those.

Some helpful VS Code extensions for Rust development:

- [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer): Provides advanced features like smart code completion and on-the-fly error checks.
- [Error Lens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=usernamehw.errorlens): Immediately highlights errors and warnings in your code.
- [Even Better TOML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tamasfe.even-better-toml): Improves syntax highlighting and other features for TOML files, often used in Rust projects.
- [Dependi](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=fill-labs.dependi): Helps manage Rust crate versions directly from the editor.
  
#### Docker

> `cargo-stylus` uses Docker to run a local <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum">Arbitrum</a> chain for testing. You can download Docker from [Docker’s website](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

Reviewer: This docker image doesn't run a local Arbitrum chain. It installs and runs cargo-stylus in a reproducible environment (cargo-stylus and rust versions specified by the user, but in a specific architecture)

#### Developer wallet/account

> You will often use crypto private keys as CLI arguments when sending transactions on Arbitrum networks, so we recommend creating an account specifically for development that doesn't hold any real assets.

Reviewer: Not necessarily as CLI arguments (and actually it's not encouraged to do it that way). You can just mention what you have at the end "we recommend creating an account specifically for development that doesn't hold any real assets."

##### Creating a new account

If you’re using [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/), click the dropdown at the top middle of the plugin and then click “Add Account” to create a fresh account. Labeling the account as a dev wallet or “Stylus” for this purpose can be helpful. You’ll need this newly created account’s private key and some Sepolia ETH to deploy a smart contract. [Follow the instructions on MetaMask’s website](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key) to obtain your key.

##### Storing your private key

You might also want to add your developer's private key to your environment variables for easier and safer access.

> To do this, store your hex-encoded private key in a text file and add the path to the file as an ENV variable named `PRIVATE_KEY_PATH` to your shell` file .bashrc`, `.zshrc` or other. You can also add this variable to a `.env` file at the root of your project.

Reviewer: This might be a bit complicated for a new dev.

What about this? (removing also the mention to the `.env` file since at this point the project hasn't been created)

```suggestion
To do this, store your private key in a text file. Keep the path to the file handy, since you'll use it in the following steps.
```

#### Arbitrum Sepolia ETH

> Stylus settles to [Arbitrum Sepolia](./reference/testnet-information.md) testnet, so you will need at least one Sepolia ETH to deploy contracts and send transactions. 

Reviewer: They don't need 1 Sepolia ETH (which is difficult to obtain nowadays). Also, I would remove the mention to Stylus settling (wrong) to, or being enabled on Arbitrum Sepolia.

```suggestion
We will interact with the [Arbitrum Sepolia](./reference/testnet-information.md) testnet, so you will need a small amount of Sepolia ETH to deploy contracts and send transactions. 
```

> Start by visiting a faucet to obtain Sepolia testnet ETH. Here are a few options:

Reviewer: There's a quicker path here, which is to directly obtain Arbitrum Sepolia ETH. You have some faucets here, but I'm not sure which ones are active (Quicknode and Alchemy are active for sure): https://arbitrum.faucet.dev/ArbSepolia

    - [QuickNode Faucet for Arbitrum Sepolia](https://faucet.quicknode.com/arbitrum/sepolia)
    - [Alchemy Sepolia Faucet](https://sepoliafaucet.com/)
    - [Sepolia Faucet by PK910](https://sepolia-faucet.pk910.de/)

Now, your Sepolia ETH needs to be sent to Arbitrum Sepolia over the Arbitrum bridge:

1. Visit the [Arbitrum bridge](https://bridge.arbitrum.io/?destinationChain=arbitrum-sepolia&sourceChain=sepolia), Connect your wallet and authorize the bridge to access your tokens.
2. Choose Arbitrum Sepolia as the source and Arbitrum Sepolia as the destination.
3. Specify the amount of Sepolia ETH you want to bridge and initiate the transfer by clicking `Move funds to Arbitrum Sepolia`. Make sure to keep some ETH in the source chain to cover transaction fees!

To verify the transfer, you can track the transaction on the [Arbiscan block explorer](https://sepolia.arbiscan.io/).

> ## Creating a Stylus project with Cargo Stylus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a Stylus project with cargo stylus
```

> `Cargo Stylus` is a CLI utility that helps you build, verify, and deploy Stylus contracts written in Rust.

Reviewer: `cargo stylus` should be always lowercase. Btw, not sure if we should call it `cargo stylus` or `cargo-stylus` (although probably the former to avoid confusing devs with the command to use)

```suggestion
`cargo stylus` is a CLI utility that helps you check, build, verify, and deploy Stylus contracts written in Rust.
```

Reviewer: This is still relevant. There are several mentions to `cargo Stylus`, and IMO should be `cargo stylus` or `cargo-stylus` (either one, but only one throughout the document).

Author: This was an oversight on my end. Should be fixed, now.

> It is available as a plugin to the standard `Cargo` tool used for developing Rust programs.

Reviewer: If you're ok with the suggestion of using lowercase for cargo, can you review the rest of instances of the doc?

```suggestion
It is available as a plugin to the standard `cargo` tool used for developing Rust programs.
```

### Installing Cargo Stylus

In your terminal, run:

```shell

> cargo install --force cargo-stylus cargo-stylus-check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cargo install --force cargo-stylus
```

We don't need to install cargo-stylus-check anymore.

```shell
Cargo command for developing Stylus projects

Usage: cargo stylus <COMMAND>

Commands:
  new         Create a new Stylus project
  init        Initializes a Stylus project in the current directory
  export-abi  Export a Solidity ABI
  activate    Activate an already deployed contract [aliases: a]
  cache       Cache a contract using the Stylus CacheManager for Arbitrum chains
  check       Check a contract [aliases: c]
  deploy      Deploy a contract [aliases: d]
  verify      Verify the deployment of a Stylus contract [aliases: v]
  cgen        Generate c code bindings for a Stylus contract
  replay      Replay a transaction in gdb [aliases: r]
  trace       Trace a transaction [aliases: t]
  help        Print this message or the help of the given command(s)

Options:
  -h, --help     Print help
  -V, --version  Print version
```

### Creating a project

You can create a new Stylus project by running:

```shell
cargo stylus new <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>
```

`cargo stylus new` generates a starter template that implements a Rust version of the [Solidity `Counter` smart contract example](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/counter_contract/blob/master/contracts/Counter.sol). 

> Alternatively, you can create a more barebone example with a Stylus entry point locally by running `cargo stylus new --minimal <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>`. 

Reviewer: If we are showing how to create a project with `cargo stylus new` and the next steps assume you have created a project like that, I would remove the mention to `--minimal` here. If a dev chooses to go the "alternative" path, they will find themselves unable to follow along.

If needed, we can add a new section after the main flow is complete.

Note that the `--minimal` option refers to a contract that handles simple "bytes in, bytes out" operations. Hence, the `cargo stylus export-abi` command (introduced later) won't work with contracts that use the entry point style because they don't enforce the Solidity ABI.

At this point, you can move on to the next step of this guide or develop your Rust smart contract. Feel free to use the [Stylus Rust SDK reference](./reference/overview) as a starting point.

## Checking if your Stylus project is valid

> By running the ' cargo stylus check ' command, you can check if your program can be successfully **deployed and activated** onchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By running the `cargo stylus check` command, you can check if your program can be successfully **deployed and activated** on-chain.
```

I believe the convention was to use "on-chain" instead of "onchain", but I can't find it in the Pattern guide. Adjust if necessary.

> **Important:** Ensure you run Docker for this command to work correctly.

Reviewer: I would maybe say "Ensure that your docker service is running", since "ensure you run docker" seems to suggest the dev needs to actively run a docker command.

```shell
cargo stylus check
```

`cargo stylus check` executes a dry-run on your project by compiling your contract to WASM and verifying if it can be deployed and activated onchain.

If the command above fails, you'll see detailed information about why your contract would be rejected:

```shell
Reading WASM file at bad-export.wat
Compressed WASM size: 55 B
Stylus checks failed: program pre-deployment check failed when checking against
ARB_WASM_ADDRESS 0x0000…0071: (code: -32000, message: program activation failed: failed to parse program)

Caused by:
    binary exports reserved symbol stylus_ink_left

Location:
    prover/src/binary.rs:493:9, data: None)
```

> When a program fails the check, it means that there was a problem with the WASM binary generated by `cargo-stylus`.

Reviewer: Flagging that `cargo-stylus` is used here. The term should be consistent throughout the document.

To read more about what counts as valid vs. invalid user WASM contracts, you can visit the [Invalid Stylus WASM Contracts explainer](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/cargo-stylus/blob/main/main/VALID_WASM.md).

If your program succeeds, you'll see something like this:

```shell
Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 1.88s
Reading WASM file at hello-stylus/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/hello-stylus.wasm
Compressed WASM size: 3 KB
Program succeeded Stylus onchain activation checks with Stylus version: 1
```

Note that running `cargo stylus check` may take a few minutes, especially if you're checking a contract for the first time. 

> You can use the `-no-verify` option for faster checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `--no-verify` option for faster checks. Keep in mind that this will use your local architecture instead of a docker container to run `cargo-stylus`.
```

Reviewer 2: In v0.5.0 `cargo stylus check` runs outside of docker by default so `--no-verify` isn't relevant there anymore. It'll still be relevant for `deploy` or `verify`

Reviewer: I believe it still runs docker (just checked on 0.5.3), although it doesn't show the full message that `deploy` or `verify` do. But, now that I think about it, I'm not sure if mentioning `--no-verify` adds a lot of value in the quickstart 🤔 .

Author: I removed  every reference to`--no-verify`

See `cargo stylus check --help` for more options.

## Deploying your contract

Once you're ready to deploy your program onchain, `cargo stylus deploy` will help you with the estimation of the deployment's gas cost, as well as with the deployment itself.

### Estimating gas

First, you can estimate the gas required to perform your contract's deployment by running:

```shell
cargo stylus deploy \

>   --private-key-path=PRIV_KEY_PATH \

Reviewer: I think this should be `--private-key-path=$PRIV_KEY_PATH` ? (notice the `$` symbol)

I like this approach (using the path to the private key file, I'll edit the previous comment)💪

Reviewer: Also, above we used PRIVATE_KEY_PATH instead of PRIV_KEY_PATH

Reviewer: Both of the comments above are still relevant

Author: Fixed.

  --estimate-gas
```
The command should return something like this:

```shell
deployment tx gas: 7123737
gas price: "0.100000000" gwei
deployment tx total cost: "0.000712373700000000" ETH
```
### Deployment

> Next, you can attempt an actual deployment. Two transactions will be sent onchain:

Reviewer: I think we should clarify that one transaction is the deployment of the contract, and the other one the activation.

```shell
cargo stylus deploy \

>   --private-key-path=PRIV_KEY_PATH

Reviewer: Same comments here as above

Author: Done.

```

Once the deployment is successful, you'll see an output similar to this:

```shell
deployed code at address: 0x33f54de59419570a9442e788f5dd5cf635b3c7ac
deployment tx hash: 0xa55efc05c45efc63647dff5cc37ad328a47ba5555009d92ad4e297bf4864de36
wasm already activated!
```

> More options are available for sending and outputting your transaction data. See `cargo stylus deploy --help` for more details.

Reviewer: We should also add a few more steps to show how to interact with the contract. We can do that in a separate PR, but I think we need to have it here. This would also require to use Foundry, but it's a necessary tool for any developer.

Author: I intend to add more, but we'll have to be mindful not to bloat the quickstart. I'm considering adding sequel articles to gradually add new instructions.

> ## Exporting Solidity ABIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Exporting the Solidity ABI interface
```

The cargo stylus tool makes it easy to export your contract's ABI using
`cargo stylus export-abi`.

> This command returns the ABI matching your smart contract. If you have been running `cargo stylus new` without modifying the output, `cargo stylus export-abi` will return:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command returns the Solidity ABI interface of your smart contract. If you have been running `cargo stylus new` without modifying the output, `cargo stylus export-abi` will return:
```

Author: Done
